gh-99553: add tests for ExceptionGroup wrapping (#99615)
python/cpython: Doc/library/exceptions.rst

         def derive(self, excs):
            return Errors(excs, self.exit_code)

   A subclass of :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup` that extends :exc:`Exception`

>    cannot wrap :exc:`BaseException`\ s, as is the case with :exc:`ExceptionGroup`. 

Reviewer: Oops, my previous suggestion introduced a trailing whitespace

```suggestion
   cannot wrap :exc:`BaseException`\ s, as is the case with :exc:`ExceptionGroup`.
```

>    Subclasses of :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup` cannot wrap :exc:`BaseException`\ s
>    if they extend :exc:`Exception`, as for :exc:`ExceptionGroup`.  However,
>    there is no further restriction: a :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup` subclass
>    which extends :exc:`KeyError` could wrap any :exc:`Exception`.

Reviewer: I found the wording here a little tricky, e.g. it wasn't fully clear to me how to parse the "as for ExceptionGroup" 
```suggestion
   A subclass of :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup` that extends :exc:`Exception`
   cannot wrap :exc:`BaseException`\ s, as is the case with :exc:`ExceptionGroup`. 
   However, there is no further restriction: a :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup` subclass
   which extends :exc:`KeyError` could wrap any :exc:`Exception`.
```

>    A subclass of :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup` that extends :exc:`Exception`
>    cannot wrap :exc:`BaseException`\ s, as is the case with :exc:`ExceptionGroup`.
>    However, there is no further restriction: a :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup` subclass
>    which extends :exc:`KeyError` could wrap any :exc:`Exception`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this comment is easy to understand without the justification. How about this?

```suggestion
   Like :exc:`ExceptionGroup`, user-defined subclasses of :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup`
   that extend :exc:`Exception` can only wrap :exc:`Exception` subclasses.
   This is to prevent exceptions that represent fatal errors from being wrapped in an
   exception group which can be caught by ``except Exception``. See also :ref:`exceptions`. 
```

>    which extends :exc:`KeyError` could wrap any :exc:`Exception`.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a strange thing to say in a doc, because why would you expect it to not wrap any Exception?

Maybe instead of the second sentence we could just explain the motivation for the restriction: “This ensures that wrapped BaseExceptions are not caught by ‘except Exception’.”

Author: > why would you expect it to not wrap any Exception?

Suppose we have `class MyEG(BaseExceptionGroup, X):`, where `except X:` will catch such a group because it extends `X`.  We disallow wrapping `BaseException`s in an `ExceptionGroup` [because they would not be caught by `except Exception:` if unwrapped](https://peps.python.org/pep-0654/#make-it-impossible-to-wrap-baseexceptions-in-an-exception-group).

However this logic is *not* applied consistently: if `X` is e.g. `KeyError`, then `except KeyError:` can indeed catch `MyEG("", [ValueError()])`.  I find this inconsistency surprising, which is why I commented on #99572 and then opened this PR!

(I'm not trying to reopen the design discussion, just trying to explain my perspective)

Reviewer 2: Ok, I see. Well yes, the Exception case is different - people use ‘expect Exception’ as ‘catch everything except fatal errors’.
